I am 40 years old I am vegan I undertook
an experiment recently to get back in
shape and lift a whole lot of weight
while having no access to protein powder
just using whole beans as my source of
protein and using no aspirin no
performance-enhancing drugs not even
aspirin no no steroids no testosterone
nothing and my experiment worked in a
lot of ways I got positive results in a
short period of time but an experiment
by definition is something you undertake
with the final outcome being unknown and
my conclusions at the end of this
experiment are ultimately kind of
negative I would not do this again I
would not work out lift weights and get
back in shape using the same method that
I used today I would in future go back
to many of the methods I recommended in
the past on this channel one year ago
two years ago or what have you so I
think that's a little interesting to
talk about um if you're looking at the
thumbnail for this video the cover image
that shows me flexing about a week ago I
know what it looks like it was taken
today but it wasn't it was actually a
completely different beard I shaved the
tree grew a beard since then and the
thumbnail image of this video that
photograph was taken on a day when I did
not go to the gym at all I didn't work
out at all and on the day before that I
also did not go to the gym so that's me
not pumped up no tension in my body
that's me in a relaxed pose that's me
with the muscle lying flat so to speak
now our appearance is what really
matters yes no maybe for me at age 40 as
a vegan with a lot of other things in my
mind I'm not an athlete
I have no pretensions to be an athlete
and I'm not giving advice for athletes I
have no expectation of ever being an
Instagram model or a bikini model or
anything of the sort
all right obvious the real person lives
in my real life but you know I notice at
my gym here there were a lot of guys
with more of a puffy build just like the
the shape of their muscles Stan
of their body in a very impressive way
and their bench-pressing
like 50% of one on bench-pressing so
after just two weeks on this experiment
my new approach to both diet and
exercise just new in the sense of
undertaking an experiment that's
something I'm not a diet book I'm
selling not even a method I did dorth
but after about two weeks I was
regularly everyday bench-pressing
110 kilograms that was my 3 rep max but
I do sets of 3 sets of 3 repeatedly with
110 kilograms 110 kilograms is 242
pounds maybe 243 pounds um depending on
I do the math or depending on how heavy
your Olympic bar is or what have you so
I was bench pressing a lot and that is
for the record
lying completely flat on the bench so
many people exaggerate the amount that
bench press by doing this ridiculous
posture where they arch their back and
all that does is shorten the distance
that you actually lift the weight at and
it oh it changes the angle at which your
socket and chest muscles are working
it's ridiculous guys if you're gonna do
bench press lie flat on the benches it's
actually about getting exercise and it's
not about setting a world record lie
flat on the bench it's just ridiculous
anyway so that's what lying flat in the
bench I'm got up to 110 kilograms 243
pounds quick so this was me bouncing
back after having no access to a real
gym for many months or depending on how
narrowly defined a real gym not having
access to a real gym for many years not
worth getting into details on that the
big changes I made with his experiment
were one as already mentioned I had
absolutely zero protein powder I've
never never used performance dancing
drugs
I'm not unless you count vegan chocolate
bars or not unless you count coffee I've
never used testosterone boosters I've
never used steroids of any kind
whatsoever
absolutely nothing so no pushing huh for
her no aspirin no push-ups it's a big
difference
in the past the core
of my workout was doing 200 push-ups per
day and I would do them with my feet
elevated way up high not going to get
into detail with that because I've
talked about that in the past the
reality is if you're doing a ton of
push-ups
it doesn't matter with the feet up high
or not you are basically going to be
burning out your shoulder for other
exercises you know it's not real easy to
build up your benchpress if you're using
the same the same muscles at a somewhat
different angle for the exhausting task
of doing to our push-ups this is just
natural and I got good advice for
someone also to try to balance the
strain I was putting on my shoulders
with inverse row or inverted row so to
be clear I do upright row upright row as
this motion point the weight up to your
chin but inverted row or inverse row is
this motion it's where you lie you lie
down beneath the bar then you're pulling
your weight up it's completely different
and it really is it's almost the exact
opposite of the motion you get with
doing push-ups on your knuckles so I
came to the decision that this time I do
things differently from one thing it's
different that I'm relying on adzuki
beans as my source of protein so that's
a red bean that we found here in Taiwan
for another thing it was different that
I was going to eliminate push-ups and I
was gonna focus on building up strength
through lifting and steel so benchpress
it very rapidly got to 110 kilograms
inverse row upright row dips chin-ups
and you know and a whole bunch of normal
exercises with with barbells I don't
feel like listing all the exercise to do
with barbells and also you know squats
and what we used to call military press
different kinds of press motions with
large barbells and small I don't think
that stuff's worth listing off detail
the usual in terms of free rate free
weight exercises but all steel no
push-ups for me this was a big
difference so you may be stepping back
at this point saying well okay well you
know you're not an athlete you're 40
years old you're vegan you're doing this
less than part time you seem to get
really good results and
two or three weeks why aren't you happy
with this why aren't you saying this is
a great technique and everyone else
should do it also reason number one loss
of sleep and that is no joke it is true
I bounced back into shape or really
rapidly but the disturbance to your
sleep of gaining body mass and gaining
strength through directly lifting steel
versus push-ups or other bodyweight
exercise like that there is no
exaggerating how disruptive this was and
this is part of my refusal to take
painkillers my refusal to take aspirin
even it's really easy to get into a
cycle as a weightlifter even if you're
an amateur even if it's less than a
hobby when you lift heavy weights it's
easy to get into a cycle where you're
using a stimulant even if it's just
caffeine using something to get
stimulated to get pumped up and then
after the gym you're using something to
relax the muscle help you sleep
hope you calm down that is not a cycle I
want to be on I had a lot of nights in
those first two weeks those first three
weeks where I didn't fall asleep until
4:00 a.m. I didn't have a pole I didn't
have an injury there's nothing wrong
with me but the soreness of the muscle
expanding sometimes in the neck
sometimes in the upper back lower back
yeah yeah I remember that with the back
was really expanding the back is
expanding and it's not just a soreness
of the muscle expanding eventually you
fall asleep with that that constant
soreness that constant low level pain
the problem is also all the hormones
that are flowing to your blood where
you're in this you know edgy
fight-or-flight mode in response to this
I've gotta say that side of the
weightlifting game with absolutely zero
performance annainsea drugs nothing just
doing this completely natural on a diet
of nothing but red beans no protein
powder I was really surprised at how my
sleep cycle was destroyed by gaining the
strength gaining the weight through
lifting steel as opposed to doing
bodyweight exercises like lifting
lifting your
wait on your on your knuckles through
push-ups with your feet elevated so of
the two I've cut really recommends you
know bodyweight exercises if you can
especially as an older person so my
girlfriend's not here my girlfriend got
sick and needed to go back to the United
States for medical treatment she went
back to new hospitals and doctors and
blood tests and stuff with that so she's
in America so nobody else's sleep cycle
is messed up by mine I'm here all alone
my daughter isn't with me here right if
I were taking care of my daughter
be impossible to sustain this this
workout schedule right but the impact on
me was really negative and if you're a
normal person living in normal life
where other people depend on you having
your sleep cycle destroyed by gaining a
ton of upper body strength rapidly it's
gonna ruin other people's lives too it's
not just gonna be your life for other
people depend on you you cannot do this
so I cannot recommend it the other kind
of unsung hero in this workout strategy
because remember I was trying to gain
muscle mass and lose body fat at the
same time while eating a diet that
revolved around red beans at no protein
powder none of these other advantages
and you know sometimes I eat like normal
Chinese food because I was a tofu and I
drink huge quantities of soy milk the
main source of fat in my diet is soy
milk but the beans are not soy beans the
beans are high protein low fat red beans
atsuki beans once in a while I eat pinto
beans something like that to mix it up
okay the unsung hero in terms of my
success in the first three weeks of this
workout was buying furniture I used to
walk a couple kilometres by a heavy desk
carry the desk home on my head it's a
lot exercise for burning a lot of
calories and your your I mean the point
is you're not doing that instead of
going to the gym you're doing that in
addition to going to the gym you're
going to the gym and then afterwards
you're carrying a desk on your head
across the city that really helps you
get results that helps you that's what
helps you simultaneously lose body fat
and gain muscle mass and it puts you in
that edgy fight-or-flight mode that
makes it really hard to fall asleep at
night so I still do recommend if you
were a regular person who's trying to
stay in shape
get in shape well if what you're trying
to do is lose body fat and gain muscle
mass or maintain muscle mass probably
the best thing you can do is add into
your day walking up and down stairs or
walking up and down a mountain or just
plain walking long distances with a
heavy load in your backpack put a ton of
books in your backpack if that doesn't
work for you take rocks wrap the rocks
in towels or blankets and put the rocks
in your backpack get heavy weights start
going uphill start going up stairs with
those rocks I think that's what I'd
probably have to start doing here
because the problem was I did that for
like three weeks
and it's not that I was buying a desk
every day but even it was walking across
town buying a plastic bucket filling it
with like forks and knives and other
stuff I needed buying furniture for the
apartments and stuff like that
still you walk in a couple plumbers
you're buying that you're carrying that
home you know that was a significant
part of my total my total exercise my
total workout and then when I stopped
doing that I didn't stop doing that cuz
I was lazy I stopped doing that cuz I
had enough furniture I don't need to I
don't need another desk I'm not gonna
buy a new desk every week right but I'm
still eating the same amount of food I'm
still struggling to get enough protein
by eating beans all the time and you
know what the results aren't the same
anymore all right I'm not losing body
fat gaining muscle mass the same way I
was during those couple weeks those kind
of figures that kind of thing it's easy
to ignore that it's easy to not
recognize
oh yeah right the exercise of getting
outside the gym that also really counts
in my case I think you need a big
difference so anyway I got to eat less
or I got to start carrying around rocks
in my backpack or both
yeah well I'm where am I gonna get the
rocks
I'll get I'll get some heavy objects to
put in the backpack gotta get some heavy
objects that people don't make a
clanking noise you know you don't want
metal weights clanking around back there
people gonna look at you funny what are
you looking carrying in that backpack
man
so look guys long story short I would be
lying to you if I said that this were
easier to do without protein powder
vegan protein powder is too expensive
it's a nightmare it's a lot wrong with
it however getting enough protein and
and and spacing out protein rich vegan
meals in the day that you don't have in
digestion all day it is a hell of a task
there is no real easy way you can't you
can't eat red beans three meals a day
and still go to the gym twice a day you
can't if I have a meal for breakfast
that's a big pile of red beans I love it
it's no problem I don't have a problem
eating that but then could digest that
before going to the gym for me that is
impossible there are some vegan
bodybuilders who cook the beans in a
pressure cooker then freeze it in the
freezer then put it into a juicer or
what I mean a blender and they make like
a protein shake I don't know what kind
of liquid they use they mix it with soy
milk or something and they find that
easy to digest so your beans are ultra
processed at that point they're boiled
they're cooled they're frozen on they're
blended up okay if that works for you
great maybe you find a particular type
of bean and when it comes out of the
pressure cooker you find it so easy to
digest that isn't probably in the same
way that before when I was discussing
muscle soreness I wasn't describing an
injury I was just describing strain and
soreness and the feeling of the muscle
expanding in the same way I have to say
here eating beans all the time I'm not
talking about indigestion
I'm just talking about digestion getting
enough protein in that format as a vegan
it is a lot of hours of digestion so my
conclusions at the end of this
experiment is that I would never use
this method again in the future I would
go back
using my old old method I recommend you
also go back to using my old method
push-ups chin ups dips bodyweight
exercises upright row is great inverse
row is great however I would limit your
reliance on heavy heavy steel I would
limit your reliance on pushing your
limit with you know your 3 rep max with
heavy heavy you know benchpress
what-have-you simply for the reason that
ultimately the way your body functions
the way your intellect functions and
even your emotional health all rely on
sleep any workout no matter how
effective if it is going to destroy your
ability to sleep it's going to destroy
your ability to live and that is
fundamentally not worth it